---
layout: post
title: Guerrilla open access and anarchist action
---

I argue that digital scientific knowledge and culture has become a form of capital in our globalised society. Bourdieu has likewise identified cultural capital as a structure of stratification. Social control over capital means that all knowledge should be under public control, and guerrilla open access as proposed by Aaron Swartz becomes political praxis. We must democratically decide which areas of culture to preserve and make open for universal access. While a great part of literature is in the public domain, the frontiers of science and modern non-fiction are closed as a means of capital, benefiting no one but large economic institutions. LibGen has become the victim of legal threats, supported by the power of the state. The ideology of IP sustains capitalist corporations in their exploitation of scientific workers and the exclusion of the grand public. Sci-hub and LibGen should be decentralised through digital coordination, and any investment of storage is participation in building an anticapitalist society.

I call the left to be analytically aware of the crucial importance of digital power in the information age. Marx identifies machines as capital intensive production, and computer systems will not only exploit a laborer but fully exclude him from the economic power of capital. Not only knowledge but information itself has become power, and anarchist action will not be limited to the archiving of culture and science. Science is not any longer only articles, but raw data, mirroring capitalist corporations such as Google and Facebook, where the lack of democratic control over data and privacy is plain for all to see. If cultural archiving is direct action, democratic action includes influencing representative democracies to transform intellectual property law. Though socialist revolutions may be nowhere in the horizon they will have to appropriate all digital power and locate it under democratic control, by both developers and users.
